[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In 2015, astrophysicists
Duncan Lorimer and Maura
McLaughlin stumbled upon a
strangely flickering star.
Its radiation pulsed
so brightly they
were unable to match it to any
known object in the universe.
As the story made the headlines,
scientists around the world
were baffled.
Then astronomers at the
Green Bank Telescope
confirmed that
these light signals
were emanating from a star
in the Cygnus Constellation,
1,200 light years away.
This fluctuating star
was cataloged KIC8462852
and named Tabby's Star in
honor of Tabatha Suzanne
Boyajian, the first
astronomer who wrote about it.
>> Amongst the 100,000 stars
that was dipping its light,
or flux, as they call
it, periodically--
now, this something which
happens if a planet moves
in front of a star.
You get a very slight dip
in the amount of light
that's reaching us.
In this case, the dips
were anything up to 22%.
Now, if I can put
this into perspective,
if, let's say,
Jupiter, the largest
planet in our solar system,
crosses in front of the sun,
if you were looking
at it from afar,
it would dip the
light only about 1%.
So something that was dipping
the light anything up to 22%
is going to be huge,
massive, something
that is totally different,
something that we've not
encountered before in astronomy.
So what was going on?
Since 2015, the answer
to this question
has garnered the attention
of astronomers, scientists,
and space enthusiasts alike.
And a myriad of explanations
have been offered.
But none have been conclusive.
What is really odd about
this mystery is that,
uncharacteristically, even
the most staunch scientists
have not discounted
a popular hypothesis
that the expansive object
interrupting Tabby's Star's
brightness could be built
by an advanced space-faring
civilization.
Astoundingly, the BBC have
even released a documentary
advocating this theory.
Could it hen be true?
Then in 2016, a new
burst was detected.
The distinctive
pulse of radio waves
released as the neutron stars
collided and were destroyed,
followed by nothing, silence.
>> The BBC have shown, for
the first time, a documentary,
not just about this star,
but the fact that it almost
certainly has an ET vessel,
alien mega-structure,
around it.
We're not just talking
about bacteria.
We are talking about advanced
civilizations, thousands
of years more advanced
than us down here on Earth.
The question comes is
that, if there really
is a structure around this
star, how does it affect us down
here?
I mean, is it possible
that these aliens
have been in touch with us in
some way in the recent past,
or perhaps even in
the distant past?
And the question comes
down to communication.
The star is approximately
1,300 light years
from our solar system.
Which means that, when
we're looking towards it,
anything we say happened
1,300 years ago.
So that's around 700 AD.
You know, the Maya civilization
was still in full flight.
When they look at
us, of course, they
are also looking at that same
time frame, around 700 AD.
>> Linda Moulton Howe's
theory suggests that the Mayan
civilization was created in
a hybridized program and then
simply disappeared,
possibly off planet.
Oddly enough, this
connects to the same time
frame with the Tabby's Star.
Could there be an
ancient civilization
that once lived on Earth
trying to connect with us?
>> I will be sought out by
some people who have worked
for the CIA, NSA, DIA.
There was a man who
had said that he
had worked for the Central
Intelligence Agency.
And he said that was the
Mayan civilization created
in a hybridized
program, that there
was a collaboration,
teaching, that all
of the mathematical
skills from history.
Then in 850 AD,
it wasn't drought.
It wasn't human war.
This man said to me,
for reasons unknown,
the EBENs came in 850 AD.
And they took the majority
of their hybridized Mayans
in a large craft and left earth.
>> Could the Mayan disappearance
and the Tabby's Star anomaly be
linked?
Or could this mystery
in the sky actually
have a more ancient connection,
an ancient connection
that some believe taps into
the codes of our planet?
>> Those astronomers, they
also said that these dips
in the light could also be
used to broadcast information,
whether this
information be binary,
whether it be prime
numbers, or some other form
of attention-seeking information
which a species like ourself,
humanity, could
recognize as intelligent,
as universal information.
>> The work that I'm carrying
out suggests that there is
intelligence in the broadcasts,
and that it may well be that it
is giving us, not just
prime numbers, or binary,
but a very specific
mathematical formula.
What I have determined
is that there
are certain cycles associated
with the Kepler data.
They are all interlinked.
And they all reflect
certain key numbers.
All of them are multiples of 11.
Now, this might be just a very
simple piece of information.
But what's so
interesting is that we
find that this is
associated with the most
complex mathematical formula
that we have down here
on Earth.
For instance, Pascal's Triangle
is made up of multiples of 11.
It's like a pyramid of
numbers, the first number being
1, the second number being 11,
the third number being 121,
the fourth number being
1331, 11 squared, 11 cubed,
et cetera, et cetera.
These are exactly
the same numbers
that are being broadcast
from the KIC star right
at this moment.
This is where it gets weird.
Because the Great
Pyramid is obviously
one of the greatest enigmas
of the ancient world.
Certain researchers,
colleagues, have found within it
certain key numbers that keep
cropping up again and again.
And that, those numbers,
are the exact numbers
that are being broadcast
by this star KIC 8462852.
Is this a coincidence?
The Great Pyramid
and its two neighbors
are aligned to exactly the
same constellation as where
this star is, which is Cygnus.
>> And yet, just
1,000 miles northeast,
another megalithic site that
is much older also points
to the Cygnus constellation.
In fact, it's the largest
and oldest megalithic site
on Earth, Gobekli Tepe.
>> Is it also a coincidence
that the oldest complex of stone
monuments in the world at
Gobekli Tepe in southeast
Turkey is also aligned to
the constellation of Cygnus?
Is it also a coincidence that
in some of the oldest cave
art around the world,
we find evidence
of this same constellation
represented by celestial birds,
by bird men, birds on poles,
that are pointed and directed
towards this constellation?
>> I wish we could get into
the minds and into the heads
of the people who
made these sites.
All over the world, in
megalithic structures,
they're all concerned
with lining themselves up
to the rising point of the sun
at certain times of the year.
They're telling us something
about our connection
to the cosmos and
our place on Earth.
>> Could Gobekli Tepe, the
oldest megalithic structure
on the planet, be revealing a
code that would connect us not
only to this anomaly in the sky,
but also to other ancient sites
around the world?
Translated into
English, "Gobekli Tepe"
means "potbellied hill."
In 1994, Klaus Schmidt, an
archaeologist from Germany,
began digging into this
unnatural-looking bluff.
A few feet below the surface,
he discovered stone ruins.
Further investigation revealed
that this ancient formation
in southern Turkey was 7,000
years older than Stonehenge,
throwing into
question much of what
has been written in
the history books.
Klaus Schmidt dedicated
his life's work
to uncovering what might
lie below the surface
and continued to excavate
until he-- mysteriously--
died in 2014.
95% of the ruins
are still buried.
And the true purpose
of Gobekli Tepe
and its relationship
to the galaxy
is still an unsolved mystery.
>> Most archaeologists believe
the site is about 13,000 years
old.
And they believe it existed
for a couple of thousand years
and then it was
deliberately buried.
Now, as far as I'm concerned,
it could date back much further
than that.
Because there is evidence
in Turkey that humans like
us existed millions
of years ago.
>> Gregg Braden points out
that more evidence is being
uncovered pushing back
the date of antiquity.
Could Gobekli Tepe
be even older?
>> One of the consequences of
global warming is that the ice
on the poles has
receded tremendously,
including Antarctica.
And the thickness of
the ice as it is reduced
allows greater visibility
from earth-penetrating radar.
So we can see what's
underneath the ice.
But one of the surprises is
that the satellite images are
sending back now
would appear to be
large-scale, complex
archaeological sites.
So they're not small hunting
villages and pit houses.
These look like advanced
technological civilizations
that we're seeing
underneath the ice.
So as a scientist, I have to
say one of two things happened.
Either someone built
these complex structures
under the ice after it already
formed, which is less likely.
And the more likely scenario
is that the structures existed.
And then the ice covered them.
Right now,
civilization, the date
is being pushed back
to 13,500 years.
The last ice age ended
12,000 years ago.
The historic context of
civilizations going back
50,000, 60,000, 70,000 years
along these 5,000-year cycles
shows up in the mythology.
Maybe the mythology is
based on much more fact
than we've been led
to believe in the past
or that we've been willing
to embrace in the past.
>> If, indeed, it could be
older than mainstream scientists
believe, then what
could be its purpose?
>> Gobekli Tepe is the
oldest stone-circle complex
in the world.
If you can imagine
Stonehenge in England
and transpose it onto the top
of a mountain top in southeast
Turkey, and then multiply
it by at least 20 times,
and then cover the stones with
beautiful carvings of animals,
and representations
of abstract humans,
then give them t-shaped
tops, because that's
what the time the stones have
there, this is what Gobekli is.
It was constructed at the
very end of the last ice age,
around 9,500 BC, and
was in use for a period
of around 1,500 years before it
was abandoned about 8,000 BC.
What's so interesting is
that the oldest and the most
accomplished
technologically-advanced stone
enclosures, and that alone gives
us evidence of possibly a lost
civilization.
The fact is that Gobekli Tepe
is in northern Mesopotamia,
the area around Urfa, and
Harran, and Gobekli Tepe.
This is clearly the
cradle of civilization.
This is where the Annunaki
had their power base.
>> I am on a trip with
geologist Robert Schoch,
who had had his PhD
in Yale University.
And we are standing down
inside of the excavation
at Gobekli Tepe, surrounded by
these 19-foot-tall limestone
pillars.
Each weighed up to 15 tons.
And they are in rings.
And in that process of standing
there and talking about
this is the most baffling place.
It doesn't feel like anything
that humans can understand.
Robert Schoch said,
you know, I've
been staring at
these T structures,
and thinking about the
old past, and what could
this have been built for.
And he said all of these
limestone pillars have T tops.
And he said it reminds
me of tuning forks.
And he said, you know,
Linda, when you stand up
at the top of the hill, and
you realize that Gobekli Tepe
was built in a bowl.
You're always looking down at
the top of these big T pillars
unless you climb down into--
and then you're among them.
And he said, what
is this whole place
was built to resonate
with certain frequencies
by something above, resonating
frequencies on big pillars
put it rings?
>> When you look
at go Gobekli Tepe,
and you see all of
the constructions of--
the inscriptions of
all of the animals
of the Earth on
these giant pillars,
it's always been interesting
to me that, perhaps, what
these things were were
a way of recording
the standing-wave pattern
of a certain kind of a form.
For instance, a crocodile exists
on a different standing wave
pattern than a crane, then
an elephant, than a monkey.
And perhaps what they
were trying to do
was, out of a state
of preservation,
trying to preserve these things.
They were trying
to preserve stones
that actually had those
frequencies recorded into them.
>> Could Gobekli Tepe have been
an ancient portal constructed
to communicate with gods
in faraway galaxies?
Is it possible that
Tabby's Star could
be a signal for humans to pay
attention to this gateway?
>> There is, for example,
evidence of very, very,
very clear, very precise
astronomy at Gobekli Tepe.
It contains, amongst
other things,
the world's first perfectly
north-south aligned building.
They can't do that
without astronomy.
There are alignments to specific
star groups at specific moments
of the year.
It's a highly-evolved site.
>> Shamanic cultures right
the way across the Eurasian
continent saw the northern
celestial pole as the point
of exit from the physical
world and the point of entry
into the sky world.
And it was seen as a hole,
quite literally a hole,
connecting the different
universes, the middle world
to the upper world.
It would seem as if this
stone is a sign board showing
that journey, and the actual
course, the route, that you
would take to reach
the sky world.
I believe that one of the
indicators to our earliest
ancestors of a
place of great power
was the appearance
of mysterious lights.
It's known that a lot of
strange light phenomena
is seen in those very mountains
where Gobekli Tepe is sighted.
We call them UFOs today.
But these type of
phenomena have been
occurring for many, many
thousands of years, arguably
since the beginning.
I think that our
ancestors would have
seen these as important signs,
that here were places where you
could establish points
of contact, portals,
if you like, with the
other world, and that,
by building your monuments
here, that link with the stars
would be stronger.
The downloads of information
that create civilization
would be stronger.
Pillar 43 at Gobekli
Tepe is a sign board
that shaman who
would be achieving
altered states of consciousness
within the enclosures
and then journeying in an
astral form to the upper world.
>> Perhaps a deeper
understanding
of the relationship of
these ancient monuments
to Tabby's Star and
other galaxies is the key
to understanding who
built them and why.
>> You know, I've not examined
aerial views of Gobekli Tepe.
But the fact that some
people, some researchers,
are equating that
with a star map that
depicts our relationship
would be the perfect match
for not only the
Egyptian culture
but for what we've discovered
in the construction
of the pyramids
themselves and the fact
that this harmonic relationship
exists between this star.
And it could very well be that
what that cosmology was meant
to encapsulate and
describe is this idea
that our star is
interacting harmonically
with these other stellar bodies.
And it could be that this
ancient extraterrestrial race
that came to visit here not
only understood that but are
following that as
a sort of harmonic
map around the universe.
>> If it is Indeed true that
Gobekli Tepe is a gateway
to other galaxies,
then perhaps, somehow,
its architects knew a global
catastrophe was imminent
and buried this ancient
technology to protect it.
>> As the excavations continued,
a number of surprising things
began to become clear.
First off, this potbellied
hill, and this whole site,
had not been covered up
by natural sedimentation.
After being in use
for about 1,000 years,
it was deliberately buried by
whoever was involved with it.
This was not some invading army
who came in and smashed it up.
This was in a kind
of preservation.
You must envisage teams
of hundreds of people
with sort of buckets filled
with stone and rubble.
And they're coming.
And they're pouring it in on top
of the existing stone circles.
And they just keep on
pouring until every stone
circle is covered.
>> Could the knowledge that
has been covered up preserve
the mythology from almost
every ancient culture?
>> Gobekli Tepe is a kind of--
it's like a potpourri
of cultures.
You see a lot of
Sumerian influence.
There's a lot of Egyptian
symbolism in Gobekli Tepe
as well.
There's Hindu influence in
there as well, Japanese.
And the fact is, this
is where you start
getting into this gray area.
Where does it come from?
Was there a world's book,
a central point, where
everybody got their ideas from?
It seems to me that
Gobekli Tepe is
almost like a microcosm
of so many cultures
around the world that supposedly
never shared information
with each other.
And now, we begin to
realize, actually,
they got around much more
than we gave the credit for.
>> Could the big secret at
Gobekli Tepe be the connection
of every culture from
around the world?
And could it have been
discovered at the right time
to reveal information?
There are many who
believe uncovering
the answers to these
questions will transform
how we understand ourselves.
>> I would be lying if I said
I knew what was exactly buried
at Gobekli Tepe.
But I think what you can do
is draw a lot of similarities
and parallels to some of
these other megalithic sites
and get some pretty decent
scientific insight into what
they were trying to accomplish.
And what it looks like they
were trying to accomplish
is the preservation of
this scientific knowledge
maybe at a time when there
was just such global upheaval
that the only way to
preserve it was to bury it.
It could very well
be why they purposely
buried the entire site.
You're going to construct a
megalithic site of that kind
of grandeur and scale, and put
that kind of effort into it,
and then you're going to
turn around and just bury it?
Why would any society do that?
>> But whoever
built Gobekli Tepe,
the fact that they buried
that very important 30 acres
of these rings, of all of
these limestone columns,
meant somebody, something,
knew it's something potentially
destructive to the whole planet.
And they didn't want
Gobekli Tepe they destroyed.
But Gobekli Tepe
survived until the 1990s.
>> Although Gobekli Tepe's
discovery in 1990 was
groundbreaking, research
has been problematic given
the dangerous upheaval in the
area and the knowledge that
still stays buried.
But perhaps the discovery
of the Tabby's Star
has become a beacon for
knowledge still preserved
at Gobekli Tepe, pointing
us in a direction
to uncover some human truths.
>> I think it is our
responsibility to preserve
those records that are being
destroyed in this cradle
of civilization, in the
Tigris-Euphrates, in Iraq,
in Syria, in Turkey.
Because they are
very intentionally
being destroyed, in
some cases, to wipe out
the memory of these
past civilizations
for a number of reasons.
Once they're gone,
they're gone forever.
And I think it's very sad
to see what's happening.
And I think it's a wake up call.
We've taken for granted
for so long the fact
that these records are
here and that they exist.
We never really had
considered that they
could be destroyed so easily.
>> If they actually got the
funding, and got the effort,
and they excavated the rest
of that 95% of that site,
I'm pretty sure what it's going
to do is answer a whole lot
of mysteries about these
other megalithic sites.
And the reason why I say
that is because here's
a site that's completely
preserved, as far as we know.
It may be an actual perfect
construction of the science
that they were trying to save.
And if that ends
up being the case,
then I think what you'll
see is a resurgence
all through humanity
and a real effort
to try to rediscover what it
was that we're now missing,
that we are a species
living with amnesia
of what the science was.
And it's simply because we've
had such a turbulent history
as a species, war, after
war, after cataclysm,
after cataclysm, the Library
of Alexandria being burned,
all of those things
mean that we've
lost more knowledge, maybe,
than we even possess right now.
And a lot of that
knowledge, when you really
begin to study these ancient
sites, can be regained.
And I'm hoping that's what
takes place with Gobekli Tepe.
Yeah, we've got a lot of
mysterious cities built out
of stone around the world.
But that kind of structure,
and only 5% of it
has been excavated, means
that below that is such
a massive amount to be found.
>> I think Gobekli Tepe has
many more secrets to reveal.
The astronomy of the
site is something
that a number of researchers
are beginning to look into.
And I think that's going
to be one of the keys
to help us understand what
was going on at Gobekli Tepe.
But there's nothing to
beat plain, old-fashioned
excavation.
And that site
needs to be dug up.
I feel like Gobekli Tepe
is potentially so important
for unraveling the origins
of our present civilizations
that we really need to
expose the whole site
and understand absolutely
what's going on there.
It may change many
things about how
we view ourselves and our past.
>> There's something
more beyond that,
that some part of us comes from
the stars themself, and that,
at the point of incarnation,
that something--
we call it the soul
or the spirit--
embodies within flesh
and blood, and exists,
and that this gives us this
connection to the stars,
that the soul or spirit actually
comes from an extraterrestrial
or a starry source.
>> What else lies buried inside
the potbellied grounds Gobekli
Tepe?
Are there more secrets about
the true origins of mankind
to be unearthed?
Are we being prompted
by the communication
with Tabby's Star to
dig deeper and connect
with these ancient sites?
Could there be some
kind of code that
interlocks celestial locations
with monuments on Earth?
Would it be possible
Gobekli Tepe could
be the ultimate smoking gun
when it comes to connecting
these ancient monuments
across the globe and the truth
on why they exist?
And could it reveal
a message that
helps us understand our
current civilization
and how to continue
humanity on this planet?
Researchers continue
to gather data.
But the answer may still
lie buried beneath the dirt.
As the unraveling of
these mysteries continue,
some interesting
evidence begins to emerge
from some unusual locations.
One such place has one of
the largest stones carved
by human hands at 1,650 tons.
>> Baalbek is one of the big
enigmas of which there is very
little answers.
We're talking about
a huge complex.
>> Around the temple of Jupiter,
there used to be 54 columns.
54, what's the
significance of that?
>> Could this number sequence
help reveal a code at Baalbek?
And is it possible
it could be more
evidence of an ancient message?
Stay tuned for the next season
of "Ancient Civilizations,"
where we dive deeper to
unravel the code of humanity.